So, now introduce the virtual DOM.
I think the most misunderstood concept
in UI development because I don't know,
it sounds kinda good, doesn't it, right?
I don't know what it is,
but it sounds kinda good.
We're going to build out a y for
it, hopefully.
And that's gonna enable us
to have a more visual or
declarative version of JavaScript for
coding user interfaces,
knowing that JavaScript is
incredibly non-declarative.
Doesn't matter where,
if your output of your code in UI is
physical element or not physical, right?
Your elements on this green in
an order you would perhaps imagine,
hopefully, that your code would look
somewhat shaped like what shows up.
If you're adding an element here,
here, and here,
the display will display
them in that order.
If you're thinking about declaring,
I want these elements in this order,
what's the most intuitive way
of doing that was HTML's listing
them down in that order down the page.
That is what declaring, that is what
descriptive code would look like for
producing the output,
not of data but of pixels.
Pixels are a visual structure.
Therefore, the declarative style of
UI engineering would be a visual,
somewhat, representation in our code
of what's to show up on the page.
Well, JavaScript does not give us that,
by default we're going
to give ourselves that.
But it's gonna require some
significant optimizations, diffing,
reconciliation to even be performative.
Slash also, it is what enables us to have
performative declarative code in UI.
Because having it, we're gonna see
interstitial, and intermediary, and
intermediate, I don't know, none of
them quite work, version of our page.
Will allow us to maybe archive
the last version based on
the previous data from the user and
maybe compare those two.
In JavaScript, work out the actual
differences, and then pinpoint change,
the real list of elements in C++ that
will actually change what the user sees.
So we both get the benefit of a visual
representation in JavaScript of what's
gonna show up, just for our ability as
engineers to be able to compose our UI.
That means move pieces around and
move little units of view around in
our JavaScript to appear on the page.
And we're going to from that optimize
our performance to save ourselves
making unnecessary
changes to the real page.